>> James Halliday: Okay, so
a related command to the copy command
is the move command, which is mv.
You can use this to
rename commands which is
kind of the same idea as moving files.
You can also use it to overwrite files.
So, if I have a file,
maybe I want to move message.txt,
I wanna rename it to be something else,
like msg.txt.
>> James Halliday: Now I can cat it out,
and list the files.
The original one is gone,
and now it's in a new place.
Also, if I wanna, for example,
override an existing file, I can do that.
So if I wanna move msg.txt,
which I should change,
put some exclamation marks at the end.
>> James Halliday: So now,
I can move msg.txt over top of boop.txt.
And now, if I kept that file,
it has the contents of msg.txt,
which no longer exists.
>> James Halliday: So you can do the same
thing with directories as you can
with files.
So if you wanna rename a directory, for
example, if I were to move the directory
called cool into something else called
good, then now there's
a directory called good.
>> James Halliday: Because of how
directories work, you don't ever have to
think about like doing things recursively,
like you would with the copy command
because all that's it's doing is just
changing the name of the directory.
>> James Halliday: The other fun commands
that we can use is the command to
make a new directory, which is called
mkdir, which is often said mikdir.
So, if you wanna make a new directory,
you can type mkdir, and
then the name of the directory
that you wanna create like wow.
>> James Halliday: If do ls,
there's a new directory called wow.
>> James Halliday: The mkdir command
takes a really nifty argument called -p.
And so the -p command says,
if this directory
name already exists then just go ahead and
use it.
But if it doesn't exist, then create it.
So you can do something with mkdir -p,
here I can show you.
So if I try to make a new directory called
a/b/c/d, then it's not going to work,
because there's no directory called a, and
there's no directory inside of a called b,
and there's no directory
inside of b called c.
So that's not gonna work, but
you can pass in this flag called -p.
And then I just go ahead,
then it makes this whole nested
directory structure for you.
>> James Halliday: So
it's a handy shortcut so
that you don't have to do
a bunch of mkdir commands.
>> James Halliday: Another nice
thing about the mkdir command is,
if some of those directories already
exist, but not all of them, or
if all of them exist,
then it succeeds no matter what.
So here,
I already have a directory called wow,
but I can mkdir -p wow/great/nifty.
And wow is a directory that
already exists, but great and
nifty don't already exist, so the mkdir
command will create those directories.
>> James Halliday: Check and
see, wow, great, whoops, nifty.
>> James Halliday: Another important
thing as your exploring your system is
bash has this very useful
feature called tab completion.
So if you start typing the name of
a file and then hit the tab key,
so for example, if I start typing
cat b-e-e and then I hit tab,
then it bashes clever enough to complete
the rest of what that would be.
>> James Halliday: So, bash only needs
enough information to uniquely identify
the file before you hit tab.
And if it doesn't have enough information,
and I hit tab, so if I just type b and
I hit tab, it doesn't do anything
because that's still ambiguous.
But you can hit tab twice.
>> James Halliday: And it lists out all
of the options which is pretty handy
sometimes.